T1SICLE
=======
   The current version of the mminstance package is available on the Web at
`http://www.lcdf.org/~eddietwo/type/'. To find out what version you have,
look at `configure.in' in this directory, or build mmafm (or mmpfb) and run
`mmafm --version'.

USAGE
-----
   Mmafm creates an AFM file (font metrics) corresponding to an instance of
a multiple-master font. It reads the AMFM and AFM files distributed with
the font.

   Mmpfb creates a normal, single-master font program which looks like an
instance of a multiple-master font. It reads the multiple master font
program in PFA or PFB format.

   These tools let you use multiple masters with programs that require
single-master fonts (afm2tfm, ps2pk, fontinst, etc.). Both programs work
fine with fonts which contain intermediate masters (Adobe Jenson and
Kepler); see `Intermediate Masters' below.

REQUIREMENTS
------------
   UNIX; gmake; C & C++ compilers. It's tested on g++-2.7.2 or later. To
build, just run ./configure, then gmake. See `INSTALL' in this directory
for more detailed information about `./configure'.

EXAMPLES
--------
   % mmafm MyriadMM.amfm --weight=300 --width=585 > MyriadMM_300_585_.afm
   % mmpfb MyriadMM.pfb --weight=300 --width=585 > MyriadMM_300_585_.pfb

   Run `mmafm --help' and `mmpfb --help' for a full option summary.

MMAFM NOTES
-----------
   Mmafm expects the name of an AMFM file on the command line. It also
needs to find an AFM file for each master (these should have been
distributed with the AMFM file). You can give the AFM files' names on the
command line, along with the AMFM file, or you let mmafm find the AFM files
automatically. For the automatic method, you must follow one of these 2
conventions:

  1) The AFM files are in the same directory as the AMFM file. They are
named `FONTNAME.afm' -- `MyriadMM-LightCn.afm', for example.

  2) There is a `PSres.upr' file that lists the AFMs by font name, and the
`PSRESOURCEPATH' environment variable contains the directory with that
`PSres.upr' file. (`ps2pk' comes with a sample `PSres.upr' file.)

INTERMEDIATE MASTERS
--------------------
   Mmpfb can handle intermediate-master fonts transparently. If you use
`PSres.upr' files, as described above, mmafm will also work transparently
on intermediate-master fonts: it'll call mmpfb to get the information it
needs. If you don't use `PSres.upr' files, you need to use mmpfb ahead of
time to set up some auxiliary files. Say you want to set up an intermediate
master font `FONT', and FONT's AMFM file is in the `DIR' directory. Here's
what you need to do:

	% mmpfb FONT.pfb --amcp-info > DIR/FONT.amcp

   When you run mmafm on `DIR/FONT.amfm', it will automatically look for
`DIR/FONT.amcp'. An example using Adobe Jenson:

	% cd ~/Fonts/AJensonMM
	% mmpfb AJensonMM.pfb --amcp-info > AJensonMM.amcp

   Most multiple master fonts don't have intermediate masters, so you
usually don't need to make `.amcp' files. Mmafm will tell you if it is
necessary for a particular font.

COPYRIGHT/LICENSE
-----------------
   All source code is Copyright (C) 1997-9 Eddie Kohler.

   This code is distributed under the GNU General Public License, Version
2, or, at your discretion, any later version. The GNU General Public
License is available via the Web at <http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html>

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
----------------
   Thanks to Melissa O'Neill <oneill@cs.sfu.ca> for patient debugging.

AUTHOR
------
Eddie Kohler, <eddietwo@lcs.mit.edu>
http://www.pdos.lcs.mit.edu/~eddietwo/
